# Password-strength-check

Introduction:Password strength is an essential factor in the security of your online accounts and data. Without a strong password, your accounts are at risk of being compromised. Cybersecurity has taken significant importance with time, and it has become necessary now to take proper measures to ensure your safety and integrity. For this purpose, every user must be sure that their password is strong enough that cannot be hacked or cracked or is challenging to do so.

Password strength checker tool is specifically built for Cyber Security concerned persons, and anyone can use it with ease. Any password you enter into this tool is safe and is not in any way sent to anywhere via the Internet. This tool is essential for generating a strong password on your own and check either their strength is good or bad. The strength of passwords is checked by the availability of various parameters inside your password. A strong password should contain numbers, Capital letters, Small letters, and symbols. A password that contains only the name of a person or a date of birth or country name is not considered safe as hackers and crackers check the common phrases first. 

Importance:The strength of passwords as an authentication control is more important than ever before. Cyber-criminals are increasingly using automated password cracking tools to identify passwords in a matter of seconds. Beyond using strong passwords, implementing two-factor authentication also helps strengthen security. Two-factor authentication combines “something you possess”, like a code sent via text message, with “something you know”, a password. This makes it more difficult for attackers to gain control of an account because they would need to compromise both modes of authentication. Moreover, should a single account become compromised by an attacker, two-factor authentication would thwart attempts to progress the compromised networks, a password reuse would become a negated (or at least mitigated) attack vector due to the second factor requirement.
